# R6

## Problem

Given point $P$ moving on $\odot O$, and two fixed endpoints $A$ and $B$. Find $\min(\frac{AP}{BP})$ (or max.)

[//]: # (TODO: add figure)

## Idea 1

We find that the ratio is very hard to cope with. Therefore, we try to transform it to the minimum length of a single
segment via similar triangles.

### Solution 1

[//]: # (TODO: add figure)

We try to reflect $\triangle ABP$ so that $BP$ is transformed to $AB$ (sA-type: $\triangle ABP \sim \triangle QBA$). 
Now we try to minimize $\frac{AQ}{AB}$, but $AB$ in known, so we minimize $AQ$. 

Notice that $BP \cdot BQ = AB ^ 2$, this is an inversion. We can derive the locus of $Q$ based on $P$, then $\min(AQ)$
is trivial.

### Solution 2

[//]: # (TODO: add figure)

We try to rotate $\triangle ABP$ so that $BP$ is transformed to $BO$ (basic rotation: $\triangle ABP \sim \triangle QBO$).
This also gives us $\triangle ABQ \sim \triangle PBO$. We try to minimize $QO$.

We can use inversion again of course ($BP \cdot BQ = AB \cdot OB$), but this is slow. Notice that $\frac{PO}{BO}$ is known.
By the similar triangle, we can get $\frac{AQ}{BQ} = \frac{PO}{BO}$. We can solve this with Apollonius Circle.

### Note

Usually other fixed segments will do as well. And sometimes they can give even simpler answers. An example of this
is 2025 T25.3: we can use [similar triangles in circle](../Circles/Similar%20Triangles%20in%20Circle.md#outside-quadrilateral)
(the external case).

## Idea 2

We try to use Ptolemy's Theorem by construction the inequality with homogenous terms in terms of $AP$ and $BP$.

### Solution 3

[//]: # (TODO: add figure)

The current points $A ,\, B ,\, O ,\, P$ doesn't given homogenous terms. We need the sides of the quadrilateral to
be all in terms of $AP$ and the diagonals to be in terms of $BP$. 

An easy way to do this will be to treat $\odot O$ as a Apollonius Circle. By constructing the corresponding point of
$A$ ($Q$), we can create another segment ($PQ$) in terms of $AP$. Then the problem can be solved by applying Ptolemy
on the quadrilateral $ABQP$.

## Bonus Problem

Given a isosceles triangle $\triangle ABC$ with $\angle BAC = 120$. $E$ is on $BC$, $F$ is on $AC$, and $BE = \sqrt{3} CF$.
Find $\max(\frac{AE}{EF})$.

[//]: # (TODO: add figure)

## Idea

Same as Idea 1.

### Solution 1

We can consider reflecting $EF$ onto $AC$ (A-type: $\triangle AEF \sim \triangle ACD$). $EDCF$ are concyclic &rArr;
$\angle ADF = \angle ACB = 30^\circ$. We now want to find the locus of $D$.

Let DF and EC intersect at $G$. With $\angle ADF = 30^\circ$, we can think of two things:

1. $ABDG$ are concyclic.
2. The angle might be formed by a rotation. (Because rotation is common in this knd of $BD-CF$ setup and the angles match.)

From the concyclic property, we find $\angle FGC = \angle EGD = \angle AEB$ &rArr; rotation: $\triangle ABE \sim \triangle GCF$.
Thus, $G$ can be proven to be a fixpoint, and with $\angle ADG = 30^\circ$, the problem is solved.

### Solution 2

We rotate $\triangle AEF \sim \triangle ABG$ and try to find the locus of $G$ and minimize $EF$. 

From the second pair, we get $\angle AGF = \angle ABE = \angle ACB$. Let $AG$ and $BC$ intersect at $D$. $CGDF$ is concyclic.
When $E$ moves from $B$ to $C$, we find that $G$ moves from $C$ to $A$. We postulate that $\angle AGC$ is fixed, but
we've already established that $\angle AGF = 30^\circ$, so we need to find $\angle FDC$.

We notice that $\triangle ABE \cong \triangle ACD$ because they're symmetric by reflection. (The congruence here is a special case,
in the general version of this problem, we need to construct that concyclic group $GCDF$ manually and we get a similarity.)
Then from the ratio given, we can find $\angle FDC = 30^\circ$. The problem is trivial from here.

Solution 1 is definitely the go-to method to solve this problem. Solution 2 is just to demonstrate that any path can lead
to a solution.

<script>
  window.MathJax = {
    tex: {inlineMath: [['$', '$'], ['\\(', '\\)']]}
  };
</script>
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>