# R7

## Problem

Given two starting points $A$ and $B$. Points $P$ and $Q$ each start from $A$, $B$, and move with velocity vectors
$\mathbf{u}$, $\mathbf{v}$. $PB$ and $QA$ intersects at $M$. Find the locus of M.

For convenience, let $AP$ and $BQ$ intersect at $C$.

## Idea

From the velocity vectors, we can see that $\frac{AP}{BQ} = \frac{\|\mathbf{u}\|}{\|\mathbf{v}\|} = k \,\text{(const.)}$.

If we set the time in motion to be $+\infty$, $M$ is at infinity. Therefore, we may guess that $M$'s locus is a ray. To
pinpoint where this ray is, we have two methods:

1. Find two fixed points.
2. Find a fixed intersection and fixed angle in between with another line.

We haven't been given any conditions about angles, so we choose method 2. We can try finding one special point on $M$'s
locus, extend through $M$ to intersect another line at a new point, and the problem is solved.

The first two special points we may notice is when $P$ or $Q$ is at $C$. You can solve the problem with these two points
(by constructing a line parallel to $BC$ through $M$), but the calculation is messy.

A better special point is when $t = -\infty$. Here $BP \parallel AC ,\, AQ \parallel BC$, therefore $AMBC$ is a parallelogram.
This already gives use two parallel lines. To utilize the parallel lines, we can extend $AQ ,\, BQ$. If we also draw out 
the first two special points, we find that it forms a [dilation](../Line%20Construction/Parallel%20Lines/Dilation.md)
structure about $M$.

### Solution

Construct the parallelogram $ASBC$. Extend $BM$ to intersect $SA$ at $D$. Extend $SM$ to intersect $BC$ at $T$.

$\triangle PAD \sim \triangle PCB$ &rArr; $AD = \frac{BC \cdot AP}{PC}$ </br>
Dilation Ratio: $r = \frac{MQ}{MA} = \frac{BQ}{AD} = \frac{BQ \cdot PC}{BC \cdot AP}$ </br>
$BT = r \cdot SD = \frac{BQ \cdot PC \cdot SD}{BC \cdot AP} = k \cdot AC$

<script>
  window.MathJax = {
    tex: {inlineMath: [['$', '$'], ['\\(', '\\)']]}
  };
</script>
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>