# R8

## Problem

[//]: # (TODO: add figure)

Given a square $ABCD$. $\triangle AMB \cong \triangle BNC$ forms L3A. Connect $AN$ and $DM$ to intersect at P.
Find the locus of $P$.

## Idea

[//]: # (TODO: add figure)

The L3A (part of the inner chordal graph) is a rotation about the square's center $O$ by $90^\circ$. $AN$ is obtained by
a clockwise rotation of $90^\circ$ of $DM$ about $O$. Therefore, $\angle APD = 90$, and the locus is found.

The crucial part, is to prove that it is indeed such a rotation.

### Solution 1

We first consider how to characterize the rotation of the individual points:

For $M \rightarrow N$, there are two easy characterizations:

1. $AM \rightarrow BN$
2. $BM \rightarrow CN$

For $D \rightarrow A$:

1. $DO \rightarrow AO$
2. You may think that's all, but we can rotate the whole diagonal: $DB \rightarrow AC$

We want to choose a pair of characterization that forms a new pair of rotational congruent triangles:

1. $BM \rightarrow CN$
2. $DB \rightarrow AC$

The angle between is easily proven equal, nd proving $\triangle ACN \cong \triangle DMB$ is trivial.

### Solution 2

We characterize all rotation of $S$ to $T$ by $OS \rightarrow OT$. Then any segment connecting such a pair of point
can be easily proven to have the rotational properties.

We already have $DO \rightarrow AO$. Now prove $MO = NO$ and $\angle MON = 90^\circ$:

Again, we'll have to find two rotational congruent pairs to prove this. One pair will have to be in relationship with $MN$:

1. $AM \rightarrow BN$
2. $BM \rightarrow CN$

Choosing either can lead to a solution. Take the 2nd for example:

We've now introduced a new rotational pair $B \rightarrow C$. We can still characterize this pair by connecting to the center.

Now we have:

1. $BM \rightarrow CN$
2. $OB \rightarrow OC$

Then proving $\triangle OMB \cong \triangle ONC$ is trivial.

[//]: # (TODO: add links)

<script>
  window.MathJax = {
    tex: {inlineMath: [['$', '$'], ['\\(', '\\)']]}
  };
</script>
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>