# R9

## Problem

[//]: # (TODO: add figure)

Given 2 starting points $A$ and $B$, $P$ and $Q$ are each moving with velocity $\mathbf{u}$ and $\mathbf{v}$.
Find the minimum of $PQ.

## Idea 1

$P$ and $Q$ are in relative motion. We can move to $P$'s reference frame. This is [two points in motion](../LinTrans.md#two-points-in-motion).

### Solution 1

[//]: # (TODO: add figure)

We add $\vec{PA}$ to everything to get $P$ stationary (construct parallelogram $APQR$, where $R$ is the transformed $Q$).
In $\triangle BQR$, we find that $R$ starts from $B$ and moves with velocity $\mathbf{v} - \mathbf{u}$. The locus of $R$
is found and $\min(PQ) = \min(AR)$ is trivial.

## Idea 2

We can treat $\vec{BQ}$ to be rotated from $\vec{AP}$. (Note: We match the fixed with the fixed.)

### Solution 2

[//]: # (TODO: add figure)

Let the angle between $\mathbf{u}$ and $\mathbf{v}$ be $\theta$. The rotational center $O$ can be found with 
$\angle AOB = \theta$ and $\frac{AO}{BO} = \frac{\|\mathbf{u}\|}{\|\mathbf{v}\|} = k$. (Note: The method mentioned
in [basic rotation](../Rotation/Basic%20Rotation.md#finding-rotational-center) is only used to find the position.
The properties about the position can only be found with some other method after the center is constructed.)

By the second pair $\triangle POQ \sim \triangle AOB$, we find that the shape of $\triangle POQ$ is fixed.

Specifically:

$$PO = \frac{k}{\sqrt{k^2 - 2 \cos(\theta) k + 1}} PQ$$
$$QO = \frac{1}{\sqrt{k^2 - 2 \cos(\theta) k + 1}} PQ$$

Using either will give us a method to transform $PQ$ into something trivial. This method also has an advantage over the first, 
because the transformed segment have one end as the original endpoint.

### Bonus Problem

2023 越秀一模 T25

<script>
  window.MathJax = {
    tex: {inlineMath: [['$', '$'], ['\\(', '\\)']]}
  };
</script>
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>